Ville d'Este 

Mountainous terrain, switchbacks down a slope. 

Discovering the character of different parts of the garden

-Keep a record of each experience / micro site
-What experience at each?
-How are they related?

It was slightly confusing why we just breezed past the rooms in the villa when we first arrived and entered inside.  I was expecting a vertically aligned villa, like the Villa Giulia we had just been at.  One difference was that it seemed that there was more of the building to go through before the gardens were arrived at.  The rooms were fairly lavishly decorated as well, with architectural paintings with (false?) perspective.  (Add other details of paintings)

However the first view from the terrace explained itself.  The phrase "grander vistas" came to mind, as the view looking out was incredible.  Delicately placed potted flowers and orange trees looked particularly striking against the clear blue sky, as opposed to a background of foliage or an urban setting.  It is strange to see such delicate plants so high above the trees and houses below.  A single fountain one level down is the first hint at the water features one will encounter throughout the rest of the gardens.  

At the end of the terrace, a balcony overlooks the Rometta, "Little Rome", which stands out to the eye of a visitor as strikindly orderly, in contrast with the disorder of the wooded mountainside surrounding.  Fascinating details, such as a concrete boat in a small river can be discerned.  

Beginning the descent into the gardens, a glimpse of a water spout can be seen between the trees off the path, piquing the curiosity and sparking excitement for visitors.  

Arriving at the end of the first switchback, a small fountain is found trickling in a niche in the wall: large moss-covered rocks over which the pleasant sound of water can be heard.  The fountain, like several more to come, is hidden from view until the visitor is directly in front of it.  

Talk about Rometta fountain here

Descending from the small mossy fountain down a small staircase towards the next switchback, a small spout of water can be seen.  One might expect one or two small fountains here; instead, you are presented with a long row of a hundred fountains, some gushing water in spouts, others in arches.  The visual effect of this is that you, the visitor to the villa, have come across an arcade made form arches of water.  The roar of the fountains is muffled by the retaining wall of the switchback, and is another unexpected suprise to the visitor.  The hundred fountains offers an almost solemn atmosphere; you will feel like you are a visitor to a royal palace or to a formal event.  The water from the arches shoots out of the mouths of animals, like sentrys or a royal guard standing watch over this path, awaiting your arrival to the villa.  

Continuing past this long series of fountains, you are once again presented with the geyser-like jet of water shooting into the air.  From here, the visitor is eye-height with the top of the geyser.  The dragon fountain at the bottom can be seen from above, with four dragons at the base of the fountain.  Also from this perspective, more majestic water features can be seen in the distance, a waterfall with another large fountain at the bottom.  The villa is unfolding and presenting itself as a frontier waiting to be explored.  

At the end of the Hundred Fountains, the walls of a courtyard frame and present another fountain: a massive basin with roaring water spilling over the edge into a pool below.  Above appears to be a balcony with many smaller basins, perhaps parallels of the large central one, but with finer, more delicate streams of water cascading into the pool.  The differences between these vessels making up the fountain creates a dichotomy between the powerful roaring water at the focal point of the piece and the more elegant and controlled streams.  The statues surrounding the fountain help to bring central focus also.  Above the basin is a large statue of a woman and child, which the eye of the viewer is drawn too.  Less noticable, thought not hidden from view, are the statues of river gods, which can be seen lurking off to either side of the balcony.  A vaulted tunnel fronted by an arcade that runs behind the fountain would have allowed visitors to the villa to experience the power of this water feature from the inside.  Although the area behind the fountain is closed to visitors today, I can imagine how the roar of the water would echo throughout this space, enhancing the perceived power of this fountain.  













